Improve quality of tplink docs (#36803)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/tplink.markdown

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}

Host:
  description: |
    Hostname or IP address of your TP-Link device.
Username:
  description: |

>     Your TP-Link cloud username which is the full email and is case-sensitive. Required for Tapo and newer Kasa devices that authenticate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Your TP-Link cloud username which is your *case-sensitive* email address. Required for Tapo and newer Kasa devices.
```

Password:
  description: |

>     Your TP-Link cloud password which is case-sensitive. Required for Tapo and newer Kasa devices that authenticate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Your TP-Link cloud password. Required for Tapo and newer Kasa devices.
```
Passwords are almost always case-sensitive, so no need to state that here.

Live view:
  description: |
    Checkbox to enable live view will create the live view camera entity for Tapo cameras. Requires your camera account credentials which you set up from the Tapo app under **Device Settings** > **Advanced Settings** > **Camera Account**.
Camera account username:
  description: |

>     Your camera account username configured for the device in the Tapo app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Your camera account username as configured in the Tapo app.
```
Maybe?

[^2]: Newer versions require authentication
[^3]: Devices may work across TAPO/KASA branded hubs

## Supported functionality

> ### Cameras

Reviewer: I would keep these in the same order as listed in the first paragraph. So either change it there, or reorder this.

Author: Which paragraph? This one:
```
The `tplink` integration allows you to control your [TP-Link Kasa Smart Home Devices](https://www.tp-link.com/kasa-smart/) and [TP-Link Tapo Devices](https://www.tapo.com/) such as plugs, power strips, wall switches, bulbs, hubs and cameras.
```

Reviewer: Yes indeed. Maybe we should also make these links to the relevant subsections and/or add a table of contents to the page for easier navigation?

Author: Order changed to match TOC

Only Tapo cameras are currently supported.
In order for live view to work, you will need to enable your camera account in the Tapo App under **Device Settings** > **Advanced Settings** > **Camera Account**.
If you do not want to do this, keep **Live view** unchecked when adding the device. This can be changed at a later date using the `reconfigure` option on the integration entry.

Depending on the supported features of the camera, you can control various settings such as privacy mode, pan/tilt, and motion detection alerts.

### Lights

> Light entitites are added for bulbs, lightstrips, and dimmer switches. Depending on the supported features of the device, the integrating will allow setting brightness, color, color temperature, and light effects. If light effects are supported by a device, they can be selected from the bottom of the light card. Light presets are also supported and can be set via the config preset drop down on the device page. Depending on the supported features of the device you can control various other configuration settings such as on/off transitions and auto-on/off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Light entities are added for bulbs, light strips, and dimmer switches. 
Depending on the supported features of the device, the integration will allow changing brightness, color, color temperature, and light effects.

If light effects are supported by a device, they can be selected from the bottom of the light card.
Light presets are also supported and can be set via the config preset drop down on the device page.

Depending on the supported features of the device you can control various other configuration settings such as on/off transitions and auto-on/off.
```
* Newlines after sentences, makes diffs easier to read
* Some typo fixes.
* Question: do we really want to describe homeassistant UI here ("can be selected from the bottom of the light card")?

Author: "can be selected from the bottom of the light card" was already part of the docs. Open to other suggestions but it's actually quite helpful if you fail to spot it.

### Plugs and switches

Switch entities are added for plugs, simple wall switches and power strips. In addition to turning devices on and off, you can control the various configuration options that the device supports, such as auto-on/off and automatic firmware updates.

### Energy monitoring

If a device supports energy monitoring sensors will be created for consumption metrics which can be fed into the Home Assistant energy dashboard.

> ### Hub attached sensors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hub-attached devices
```
Maybe? Given that we also support thermostats :-)

> Various hub attached sensors are supported such as those providing climate control, motion detection, humidity monitoring and water leak detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Various hub attached devices are supported such as those providing climate control, motion detection, humidity monitoring and water leak detection.
```

## Data updates

Devices are polled for data updates every 5 seconds. If an update occurs in Home Assistant, such as switching on a device, then it will update it's data immediately afterward.
The integration connects locally to the devices without going via the TP-Link cloud. This is different from the native Tapo and Kasa apps which will connect to the devices via the TP-Link cloud if the device has access to the internet.

## Known limitations

### Camera connections

Some firmware versions of Tapo Cameras will not authenticate unless you enable **Tapo Lab** > **Third-Party Compatibility** in the native Tapo app.
Alternatively, you can factory reset and then prevent the device from accessing the internet.

### Subnets and discovery

> If devices are on a different subnet to Home Assistant, automatic discovery will not work. In this instance it is recommended to add devices by IP address and configure them with static IP addresses to prevent issues when IP addresses change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If devices are on a different subnet to Home Assistant, automatic discovery will not work.
In this instance it is recommended to add devices by IP address and configure them with static IP addresses to prevent issues when IP addresses change.
```
Worth mentioning here that discovery is done on all configured interfaces (when multihoming)?

### Buttons

The hub-attached Tapo buttons S200B and S200D, do not currently support alerting when the button is pressed.

### Hub-attached cameras

Hub attached cameras will be supported in the future. Due to battery considerations they do not support live view.

### Light effects

> Light effects are currently not supported on Kasa bulbs.

Reviewer: Hmm, wasn't it so, that kasa bulbs even supports custom effects? Or was that limited to the led strips?

Author: Just never implemented iirc

Reviewer: Okay, I think it's fine.

### Kasa power strips

> Due to limitations of the devices, the energy monitoring state of Kasa power strip child plugs is only updated every 60 seconds.

Reviewer: Add a note, that you can manually force update by executing the update() action on the entity?

Author: I didn't realise that. So there's an `update` action available in the device page? Could you paste an image?

Reviewer: So if you go to the developer tools -> actions and search for "update", you'll find it. Iirc, homeassistant.update_entity or something like that is the full action name.

Author: Done

## Troubleshooting

### Device connections

- Take note of the known limitation for subnets above.
- Try switching the device off for 5 seconds before switching back on again.
- Check the [supported device list](#supported-devices) to see if the device is tested to work with the integration. 

> - Try running the [kasa tool](https://github.com/python-kasa/python-kasa) to connect to the device. An easy way to do this is to [install uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) and run `uvx --from python-kasa kasa --username <tplink cloud username> --password <tplink cloud password>`

Reviewer: I'd avoid mentioning specific commands here, but rather improve python-kasa's documentation and link there.

Author: coderabbitai is already telling me to add examples of the tool output here:

```
The troubleshooting steps are helpful, especially the kasa tool reference. Consider adding example output to help users identify successful vs. failed connections.
```

Whilst I get that the python-kasa docs should cover most things I do think that it's more targeted towards power users who really want to use the library. I think for many HA users who simply want the integration to work, it is valuable having the most basic usage available (and probably include how to interpret the output as per the coderabbitai comment). I think most of the things we're repeatedly putting in issue comments should go in the troubleshooting section, so we should probably include enabling of debug logging as well.

Reviewer: Okay, fair enough :+1:

- Raise a support issue

### Unavailable entities

> Some entities might be showing as Unavailable if they have been removed from the integration.

Reviewer: Is this necessary to have at all?

Author: It was already part of the docs and I think it's good to keep as we had issues asking about it before we added it.

Reviewer: Okay, let's keep it then. I don't really like it as it was just due to a "temporary" fix for the update and one of the energy sensors (iirc) and should not affect any newcomers, but let's keep it for now.

#### Total consumption sensor

This entity is only reported by older kasa devices.
Currently, Tapo devices and newer Kasa devices do not report total consumption, although briefly during 2024.6, they incorrectly reported today's consumption as "total consumption." You can safely delete this entity if it is reported as unavailable on a newer Kasa or Tapo device.

#### Update available sensor

This entity has been removed from the integration due to stability issues, calling the TPLink cloud API to check for updates. It will be replaced in a future release with a new Update entity, but if you have an Unavailable entity ID starting with `binary_sensor.` and ending with `update`, you can safely delete it.

## Examples

### Automation ideas 

- Turn on lights when it gets dark and turn them off again with a voice command.
- Turn off privacy mode and turn on motion detection for internal cameras when you leave home (with geofencing) and toggle back when you get home.

### Light effect services

> There are two services for light effects that can be used in automations.

Reviewer: There should be a note on both of these actions that specifies on which devices these can be used.

Author: That's done, forgot to mark it last week

### Plugs and switches

Switch entities are added for plugs, simple wall switches and power strips. In addition to turning devices on and off, you can control the various configuration options that the device supports, such as auto-on/off and automatic firmware updates.

### Energy monitoring

If a device supports energy monitoring sensors will be created for consumption metrics which can be fed into the Home Assistant energy dashboard.

### Hub-attached devices

Various hub attached devices are supported such as those providing climate control, motion detection, humidity monitoring and water leak detection.

## Data updates

Devices are polled for data updates every 5 seconds. When you make changes through Home Assistant (e.g., switching a device on), the device's state is updated immediately rather than waiting for the next poll.
The integration connects locally to the devices without going via the TP-Link cloud. This is different from the native Tapo and Kasa apps which will connect to the devices via the TP-Link cloud if the device has access to the internet.

## Known limitations

> ### Camera connections

Reviewer: Known limitations could be a sub(sub)section underneath the corresponding section, to make it much easier to read? Basically grouping _device-type specific_ information together, considering someone reading the docs for cameras is likely also interested in reading about limitations etc. related to them.

For example:

```
# Cameras
In order for live view to work, you will need to enable your camera account in the Tapo App under **Device Settings** > **Advanced Settings** > **Camera Account**.
If you do not want to do this, keep **Live view** unchecked when adding the device. This can be changed at a later date using the `reconfigure` option on the integration entry.

Depending on the supported features of the camera, you can control various settings such as privacy mode, pan/tilt, and motion detection alerts.

## Known Limitations

Only Tapo cameras are currently supported.

Some firmware versions of Tapo Cameras will not authenticate unless you enable **Tapo Lab** > **Third-Party Compatibility** in the native Tapo app.
Alternatively, you can factory reset and then prevent the device from accessing the internet.
```
What do you think?

This could be also expanded to add some _device-type specific_ automation examples, troubleshooting etc.

Author: I think better to follow the top level section format for these sections and others as that seems to be what's happening elsewhere.

Reviewer: Fine by me :+1:
